---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Big Decisions
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-20
labels:
  - Computer Science
  - Interests
---

Ever since I was a kid, I've always had an interest in video games, starting from playing games in the living room with my brother on our PlayStation 1 to PC games online with my friends. I have spent more time on my computer or some console than anything else, whether it was just surfing the web or playing games. Although I spent most of my time on the computer, the thought of coding hasn't really come across my mind until my junior year in highschool from a senior friend of mine who decided to go into Computer Science for college told me about it. As a person, I am generally indecisive about what I want to do at the time and end up thinking about whether I should've done something else. However, this is a decision in my life I don't think I would ever regret.

The interest in games and other applications has always been there, and I thought it would be neat to know how those things are created. The first time I realized this would be when I was into Minecraft and wondered how people made mods for that game. I didn't think much of it after that, until I took my first ICS course and experienced coding myself. My interest in the field really did go up, thinking how fun and satisfying it was creating something that was my own. From there, I've thought about what I want to do with this. Did I want to go into video game development, or maybe general software development to make things easier for users? I also encountered a video of a computer scientists who invented a device that would help against Parkinson's. This introduced the idea of using this field in order to help those with disabilities. 

Although I am usually indecisive about what I want to do, there have always been ideas of what I can pursue. With all the courses I am taking, I hope to learn and expand my knowledge of coding and how I can apply it to things I want to do. In the end, I want to be able to create something I can be proud of. This was a big decision for this part of my life, and can only hope for big things in the future with this field.
