---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: No such thing as a stupid question? Apparently not.
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-25
labels:
  - Smart Questions
  - Not Smart Questions
---

  I'm sure you have heard the phrase "There's no such thing as a stupid question" some time throughout your life. Apparently, however, that isn't the case with the open source community. People don't like wasting time with stupid or not smart questions, and Eric Raymond's essay [How to ask questions the smart way] {http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html} makes that pretty clear. Everyone wants things to be efficient. A big part of that efficiency comes from the questions they encounter along the way. Bad questions are just there to waste time, and good questions can ultimately save time. I think that the abilities to recognize and make smart questions are important for a software engineer because all questions, whether good or bad, cost people that very valuable resource of time.
  The qualities of a smart or not smart question are talked about in Raymond's essay. Some examples of those qualities include proof that the one asking the question did their research, tried as much possible solutions, and give opportunity to anyone answering to learn something new. An example of such a question can be found [here]{https://stackoverflow.com/questions/122102/what-is-the-most-efficient-way-to-deep-clone-an-object-in-javascript}. In this question, the asker asked a short and concise question, while showing that he/she did some research and attempted some tests. The comments show that the community is interested as there are multiple people that try to provide an answer in their way. 
  While there are smart questions, there can be some not so smart questions. In general, these questions according to Raymond's essay can be easily solved if the asker did a little more work. Any question that screams "Give me the answer" instead of "I tried" would be deemed a not so smart question, in my opinion. [Here]{https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21972289/why-does-swing-get-error-with-parseint} is an example of that. In this question, the asker doesn't seem like they have done they're research on the topic and hasn't attemped to solve it themselves either. This is shown when a lot of the responses to this question tend to go along the lines of "this can be solved with a little bit of studying." It also seems that the poster didn't initially post the necessary information that would let others help him/her solve the issue, due to the many "post your code" comments.
  After reading Raymond's essay, I've come to realize some things. One of those things is that people really seek knowledge. Whether it's asking or answering a question, a big aspect they are looking for is something to learn that will be useful for them somewhere. Questions are necessary for learning something new, but they need to be smart about it. Good smart questions will provide something in return for both parties and in the end, save everyone time.
  
