---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: JavaScript and WODS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-20
labels:
  - JavaScript
  - WODS
---

As far as my knowledge with JavaScript, the first couple of assignments were my first time working with the language. Compared to the three other languages I have learned so far (Java, C, and C++), JavaScript to me seems a lot easier. This might not be the case, but to me things in JavaScript seem more simplistic based on the types of variables and how return types work. I really like these aspects about the language. The freeCodeCamp exercises were fairly simple and helped me learn the basics pretty quickly. A lot of them were straightforward, but there were a few in there that I couldn't figure out right away and had to think a litte. There were a lot of other cool features that it taught, and although I'd have to look back at them since I can't remember them at the top of my head, I remember thinking at the time that it was pretty neat. Generally the freeCodeCamp experience was fun and wouldn't mind doing the other categories challenges. Whether JavaScript is a good or bad language is hard for me to determine at this point. Sure things are more simple in terms of actually writing code, but I'm not sure how powerful it could be (compared to C and C++). Overall, I'm really liking the language so far and hope to do a lot more with it in the future.

For the WODs, I am really enjoying them so far. They are nice little exercises that aren't too tough and help me get experience working with JavaScript. I might be speaking too soon, as they could very well be a lot harder in the future. Either way, the WODs have been helpful in having us coming up with quick solutions and figuring out the tools we need to solve the problem at that time. It is a great tool in keeping my mind refreshed on all things JavaScript, and hope to learn a lot more using it in the future of this course.
