---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Key is in the Pattern
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-05-01
labels:
  - Design Patterns
---

  Running into problems for anything can be kind of frustrating, but I'd imagine running into the same kinds of problems over and over again can be just as troublesome. Sure it would probably be easier to fix the next time due to the experience, but not many people like running into problems that they already dealt with before. Luckily for software engineers, there's something known as design patterns. Design patterns are repeatable solutions to common problems that occur during software design. It's a benificial system for software engineers as it can speed up development processes and promote better communication through common terms. Different types of design patterns include creational, structural, and behavioral design patterns. 
  
  One of the design patterns that I think I've used in a lot of my code would be Iterators. It is basically accessing elements in a collection in a sequence. Since a lot of the projects for this class uses collections or arrays, the use of iterators is definitely useful. I think another design pattern I've used before would be the Factory Method, which involves a template and objects created under the template with specific parts for that object.
  
  In general, design patterns are a really useful set of tools for software engineers to save time. If you think about it, using design patterns is like making a house functional. You have your walls, ceiling, and floor, the basic foundations of your project. Then you realize you have many problems like no where to sleep or cook food or use the bathroom. Design patterns are sort of like those utilities like a bed structure, kitchen layout, or a toilet that you could use for those problems you come across whenever you build a new house. The next problem you have is that you're locked out of the house. Luckily the repeatable solution is creating keys for whatever locks you have. In the end, you'll be using this solution the next time you get locked out of the next house you build.
  
