---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Coding Standards
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-08
labels:
  - Coding Standards
  - ESLint
---

  In terms of experiencing a new language, I think that having good coding standards is beneficial in helping with the learning. With a specific style of coding, it could help users specify specific aspects of that language. For example, when learning C and C++ in ICS 212, our professor didn't allow multiple return statements. If I remember correctly, this was because of how data worked with the stack and RAM. 
  After working with ESLint and IntelliJ, I think I have generally a good impression about it. However, things weren't so smooth at first. When first setting things up, I followed the instructions by the videos linked in Laulima. Everything worked fine, until I kept getting errors about ESLint node. I couldn't find paths that would work at all. It wasn't until a good while later that I realized that there is probably more videos to this. Little did I know that I had to install something via console. It was a pain getting things to work before I knew about the other videos but, after that everything worked great.
   Moving onto using ESLint and IntelliJ itself, I actually quite like it. To me, everything looks nice and feels nice. ESLint isn't really much of a pain at first because whether the green check mark is there or not, if the code worked it worked. I could always fix it later. All the red lines helped me inspect my code a little better as I go through it, trying to fix all the missing spaces I missed. It also makes everything nice to look at in the end. For now since all the projects I've worked on using IntelliJ and ESLint so far were short, the red marks aren't too much of a hassle. However, I feel like as the projects get bigger it might turn into a pain going through everything just to fix a missing space after a parenthesis or similar. Until it gets to that point, I'm liking the experience so far.
   In conclusion, my experiences with ESLint and IntelliJ thus far hasn't really been that bad. It helps make my code nicer to look at and helps me with my coding a little. I look forward to working with ESLint and IntelliJ for future projects.
