---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Frameworks
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-22
labels:
  - UI Framework
  - Semantic UI
---
  Over a week or so, I had the chance to experience using a UI Framework for the first time, Semantic UI. This framework came with tools to format content, and actually creating those segments was pretty simple. There were tools like menus, grids, and buttons that we could use to design a website. There was also the ability to change and customize these sections with simple keywords like fitted or mini. I think a big and useful part of Semantic UI was formatting these customizations in a sort of plain english. If you wanted a big red button, it was as simple as typing /<button class="big red button"/>.
  
  Learning Semantic UI really did feel like learning a new language to me. There are so many keywords and tools to get familiar with in order to do a certain job. It would be a lie to say that it wasn't a pain. However, with using plain HTML and CSS in mind, learning Semantic UI or any other UI Framework would be worth it in my opinion. It allows lines and elements to be easily readible and understandable with it's simple formatting of elements. It does take a while to use to and learn everything, but once you have it down, you can make big red buttons real quickly and simply.
  
  In general, I think the benefit for a software engineer using UI Frameworks is the creativity and use that the tools of the framework gives. There has been this sort of wonder in the back of my mind how websites were actually built up. Learning about UI Frameworks sort of gave me an idea of how these things work. I think it is amazing what the abilities of a UI Framework and the creativity of the designer could do together. 
  
